---
layout: post
title:      "Uncharted Territory - Why Sowftware Engineering?"
date:       2019-12-22 06:52:41 +0000
permalink:  uncharted_territory_-_why_sowftware_engineering
---



Some people work better under pressure, with a time constricted requirement task and slightly stressful one at that. I would like to think I fall under the same category.  But man, was I wrong this time. 

In my past experiences in school and learning, I seem to be the type to learn last minute, and study materials the day before or the day of exams. This have worked out for me almost my whole life, cramming studies at all once and do great on my finals. Going into this course people had made it seem easy, but all of a sudden I'm struggling and this has been a steep learning curve on my end. I love learning new environments whether in my career or personal relationship with self and/or others.  Although, feeling overwhelemed with juggling school and life all at the same time, still I learn about myself and the type of resiliency and patience I can apply in my career and in life. 

By all means, I do not intend for this specific blog to be a rant (maybe on my next one, I can write you a novel). So now let me tell you about how I decided to be a Software Engineer and my previous career.  I recently left my previous job in the healthcare industry. I worked closely with patients who have kidney failure and have a kidney fuction of less that 15 percent, the percentage of kidney fuction left you need to qualify to be on Dialysis. Dialysis is a process of clearing out the toxins out of your blood/body once your kidneys can no longer do it for you. That is where we come in, a Hemodialysis center that is made up of nurses and technicians (doctors, management, office, etc.) who closely work with patients to administer life-sustaining procedure. We technicians are what you call the "front of the line" we are the first people the patients interact with, and ultimately know our patients the most, not only in a professional and medical level, but as well as personal/life events. 

Going into Hemodialysis in my early 20's I thought, it would be a stable job for myself.  I was not sure what I really wanted to do at the time so I figured why not get in the medical field until the day I do.  Long story short I ended up liking what I learned in school to be a technician and was excited to be able to help out others.  It is in my nature to want to either help other people or at least influence for the better and touch peoples heart. I do so just by being myself, and not having ulterior motive.  Shortly after graduation, I landed a job at the same corporate company I did my intern with. I felt truly moved and was touched having to be in this type of environment, although some people might find depressing, I saw it as an opportunity to help and touch peoples lives.  I got the job at a different clinic than my internshi, and it was a total different environment, vibe, and characterstics of people if I may add. The patients that I now had seemed very ungrateful, and the workers seem to be unhappy and unethical as well.  It started rough at first but eventually worked things out there and stayed for almost three years. After a change of management I decided to leave, I had genuine fun in this clinic and met amazing people a long the way. But it was not the career I had in mind doing for the rest of my life. On top of it, there  is a cap on this corporate ladder. If I wished to be move up this "ladder", it is a must to go back to school for nursing. This idea was not ideal for myself. I did not have any desire to be a nurse along with most the memebers in my family. 

After doing rigorous search for a job of the same field, and job offers. I felt extremely underwhelmed. I did not find it exciting, interesting nor fulfilling to go back in the same position I was in before. I eventually started looking into other careers and stumbled upon Software Engineering.  I did a good amount of research took me a while to decide this is what I wanted to do. Applied at multiple schools and got accepted at Flatiron along as well as the other schools I applied to, although Flatiron was ultimately my first choice (hence, why I am here with you guys today).  I figured, I always enjoyed technology, troubleshooting my own/others' machines and devices. I'm even extremely into the mechanics of an automobile and do minor fixes on my own car myself.  I also enjoy playing video games growing up, and still play until today (not since I've started school of course, but if I could juggle the two I would).  I decided to take a leap of faith and step into an extremely uncharted territory for myself and hope for the best.  I hope to be successful in the industry, and praying things will make more sense sooner than later. My knowledge as of now is minimal but am always willing to help if I could, don't be shy to reach out! Hope you enjoyed a snippet of my story, keep gridding and good luck to all. 
